docs/api.md, before:

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [withData][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [Examples][3]
-   [SSR][4]
    -   [getAppInitialData][5]
        -   [Parameters][6]
        -   [Examples][7]
    -   [hydrateData][8]
        -   [Parameters][9]
        -   [Examples][10]
-   [Types][11]
    -   [GetDataFn][12]
        -   [Examples][13]

## withData

HOC for getting async data for initial component props and in subsequent updates.

### Parameters

-   `getData` **[GetDataFn][14]** 
-   `shouldDataUpdate` **function (prev: Props, next: Props): [boolean][15]**  (optional, default `defaultShouldDataUpdate`)
-   `mergeProps` **function (props: Props, state: State): Props**  (optional, default `defaultMergeProps`)

### Examples

```javascript
import { withData } from 'react-get-app-data'

const Page = ({ message }) => (
  <div>
    {message}
  </div>
)

export default withData(() =>
  Promise.resolve({ message: 'ok' })
)(Page)
```

Returns **HOC** 

## SSR




### getAppInitialData

**Server**: Request app data from all `withData` wrapped components
by walking deep inside root app element [`tree`][16].

#### Parameters

-   `tree` **ReactElement&lt;any>** — Your app root element
-   `serverContext` **[Object][17]** — Can be used to provide additional data to `GetDataFn` (like `req`, `res` from an `express` middleware).
-   `dataStore` **DataStoreType**  (optional, default `defaultDataStore`)

#### Examples

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import { renderToString } from 'react-dom/server'
import { getAppInitialData } from 'react-get-app-data'
import { html } from 'common-tags'

import App from './app'

export default () => (req, res) => {
  const appTree = (<App />)

  getAppInitialData(appTree, { req, res })
    .then((initialData) => {
      res.send(html`
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        <html>
          <body>
            <div id="app">${renderToString(appTree)}</div>
            <script>
              (function () {
                window._ssr = ${JSON.stringify({ initialData })};
              })();
            </script>
            <script src="/client.js"></script>
          </body>
        </html>
      `)
    })
    .catch((error) => {
      console.error(error)
      res.status(500)
      res.send(`Error: ${error.message}`)
    })
}
```

Returns **[Promise][18]&lt;[Object][17]>** 

### hydrateData

**Client**: Hydrates SSR state from `getAppInitialData`.
Must be used before rendering App root component.

#### Parameters

-   `data` **[Object][17]** 

#### Examples

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
import { hydrateData } from 'react-get-app-data'
import HomePage from './pages/home'

// Get server state
const { initialData } = (window._ssr || {})

// Restore app state
hydrateData(initialData)

// Render app
ReactDOM.hydrate((
  <HomePage />
), document.getElementById('app'))
```

Returns **void** 

## Types




### GetDataFn

Function that returns Promise with props for `withData` wrapped component.
First argument is **Object** with `isClient`, `isServer` flags, parent component props and context from `getAppInitialData`.

Type: function (context: [Object][17], prevData: [Object][17]): [Promise][18]&lt;([Object][17] \| [boolean][15] | null)>

#### Examples

```javascript
const getData = ({ isClient, isServer, ...parentProps }, prevData) => Promise.resolve({
  message: isServer ? 'server' : 'client'
})
```

[1]: #withdata

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #examples

[4]: #ssr

[5]: #getappinitialdata

[6]: #parameters-1

[7]: #examples-1

[8]: #hydratedata

[9]: #parameters-2

[10]: #examples-2

[11]: #types

[12]: #getdatafn

[13]: #examples-3

[14]: #getdatafn

[15]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[16]: https://github.com/ctrlplusb/react-tree-walker/

[17]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[18]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise

Commit message:

✨ Return `false`, `null` or `undefined` to prevent update

docs/api.md, after:

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [withData][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [Examples][3]
-   [SSR][4]
    -   [getAppInitialData][5]
        -   [Parameters][6]
        -   [Examples][7]
    -   [hydrateData][8]
        -   [Parameters][9]
        -   [Examples][10]
-   [Types][11]
    -   [GetDataFn][12]
        -   [Examples][13]

## withData

HOC for getting async data for initial component props and in subsequent updates.

### Parameters

-   `getData` **[GetDataFn][14]** 
-   `shouldDataUpdate` **function (prev: Props, next: Props): [boolean][15]**  (optional, default `defaultShouldDataUpdate`)
-   `mergeProps` **function (props: Props, state: State): Props**  (optional, default `defaultMergeProps`)

### Examples

```javascript
import { withData } from 'react-get-app-data'

const Page = ({ message }) => (
  <div>
    {message}
  </div>
)

export default withData(() =>
  Promise.resolve({ message: 'ok' })
)(Page)
```

Returns **HOC** 

## SSR




### getAppInitialData

**Server**: Request app data from all `withData` wrapped components
by walking deep inside root app element [`tree`][16].

#### Parameters

-   `tree` **ReactElement&lt;any>** — Your app root element
-   `serverContext` **[Object][17]** — Can be used to provide additional data to `GetDataFn` (like `req`, `res` from an `express` middleware).
-   `dataStore` **DataStoreType**  (optional, default `defaultDataStore`)

#### Examples

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import { renderToString } from 'react-dom/server'
import { getAppInitialData } from 'react-get-app-data'
import { html } from 'common-tags'

import App from './app'

export default () => (req, res) => {
  const appTree = (<App />)

  getAppInitialData(appTree, { req, res })
    .then((initialData) => {
      res.send(html`
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        <html>
          <body>
            <div id="app">${renderToString(appTree)}</div>
            <script>
              (function () {
                window._ssr = ${JSON.stringify({ initialData })};
              })();
            </script>
            <script src="/client.js"></script>
          </body>
        </html>
      `)
    })
    .catch((error) => {
      console.error(error)
      res.status(500)
      res.send(`Error: ${error.message}`)
    })
}
```

Returns **[Promise][18]&lt;[Object][17]>** 

### hydrateData

**Client**: Hydrates SSR state from `getAppInitialData`.
Must be used before rendering App root component.

#### Parameters

-   `data` **[Object][17]** 

#### Examples

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
import { hydrateData } from 'react-get-app-data'
import HomePage from './pages/home'

// Get server state
const { initialData } = (window._ssr || {})

// Restore app state
hydrateData(initialData)

// Render app
ReactDOM.hydrate((
  <HomePage />
), document.getElementById('app'))
```

Returns **void** 

## Types




### GetDataFn

Function that returns Promise with props for `withData` wrapped component.
First argument is **Object** with `isClient`, `isServer` flags, parent component props and context from `getAppInitialData`.

If returned value is `false`, `null` or `undefined`, component will use previous data in state, also
in `getAppInitialData` `false` value will prevent requesting data inside that element tree.

Type: function (context: [Object][17], prevData: [Object][17]): [Promise][18]&lt;([Object][17] \| [boolean][15] | null)>

#### Examples

```javascript
const getData = ({ isClient, isServer, ...parentProps }, prevData) => Promise.resolve({
  message: isServer ? 'server' : 'client'
})
```

```javascript
const getData = (contextProps, prevData) =>
  prevData
    ? Promise.resolve(null) // data in state will not update
    : Promise.resolve({ message: 'ok' })
```

[1]: #withdata

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #examples

[4]: #ssr

[5]: #getappinitialdata

[6]: #parameters-1

[7]: #examples-1

[8]: #hydratedata

[9]: #parameters-2

[10]: #examples-2

[11]: #types

[12]: #getdatafn

[13]: #examples-3

[14]: #getdatafn

[15]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[16]: https://github.com/ctrlplusb/react-tree-walker/

[17]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[18]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise
